{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww19100\viewh13340\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 README File for trees012825.shp (removed 19, 20, 23) and trees0122925ALLPLOTS\
\
Emma Bacon, Urban Trees \
\
X: ObjectID assigned by ArcGIS\
Plot: which plot the tree is located in \
OBJECTI: Original objectID that was added to raw dataset\
Essence_latin_w_cultivar: full name of tree straight from FieldMaps, includes cultivar and hybrids\
DBH_final: final DBH of all tree, use this one for calculations. For multistem trees, this final DBH is the average DBH based on Magarik et al. 2020 D30 protocol ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ufug.2019.126481"}}{\fldrslt https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ufug.2019.126481}})\
M_M__E_: whether the tree was measured or estimated\
rowid: for hedges, each hedge has the same rowID for each individual\
Hedge_YN: Y if it is a hedge, N if not a hedge\
Genus: genus of tree\
Species: species of tree (x indicates a hybrid)\
NOBJECT: another object ID, ignore\
Hybrid: yes or no if the tree is a hybrid\
cultivar: whether the tree is a cultivar and what the cultivar name is\
genus_species: combines genus and species column. If the tree has no species (identified only to the genus level), it is \'93NA\'94 in this column\
gns_spc: the \'93clean\'94 species for each row. For species with cultivars, cultivars were removed. Hybrids were considered species and included in this list. Some species such as Malus were consolidated to one large category, Malus spp. For trees identified to the genus level, we calculated the most abundant species in that genus and designated them to that species. \
UTIL_SO: landuse code used by Observatoire Grand Montreal for utilization sol. \
lnd_cvr: original land use type from utilization sol data from Observatoire Grand Montreal ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://observatoire.cmm.qc.ca/produits/donnees-georeferencees/#utilisation_du_sol"}}{\fldrslt https://observatoire.cmm.qc.ca/produits/donnees-georeferencees/#utilisation_du_sol}})\
updtd_1: updated land use type: bureau and industrie has been combined with commercial. hydrographie was combined with parc. All residential categories were consolidated into one residential category. Names have been translated to English. Orignal categories: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://observatoire.cmm.qc.ca/documents/geomatique/UtilisationDuSol/UtilSol_Legende_2020.pdf"}}{\fldrslt https://observatoire.cmm.qc.ca/documents/geomatique/UtilisationDuSol/UtilSol_Legende_2020.pdf}}\
PrivPub: whether the tree is considered private or public, when we combine the land use type into two categories. This is an estimation of the land use types - some trees may be designated as private but are actually public. We based this decision on common knowledge about which green spaces the municipalities explicitly manage. Public land was considered public right-of-way and parks. Private land was considered residential, institutional, commercial, and vacant lots. \
geometry: point in shape file with coordinates (lat, Lon)\
\
\
}