{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red56\green101\blue115;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c27451\c47059\c52549;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15620\viewh7560\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 README File for ArbresObsUrbsJun1 and PlotStatsTreesJun1\
\
Emma Bacon, Urban Trees\
\
Data collected Summer 2023 and 2024\
\
ArbresObsUrbsJun1:\
\
Date: Date of data collection\
Plot: which plot the tree is located in \
Object_ID: Tree ID (some numbers are deleted due to trees being removed)\
Raw_Taxonomic_Identifier: full name of tree straight from tree inventory and FieldMaps, includes species, cultivar and hybrids when identified.\
DBH_2023_final: final DBH of all tree, use this one for calculations. For multistem trees, this final DBH is the average DBH based on Magarik et al. 2020 D30 protocol ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ufug.2019.126481"}}{\fldrslt https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ufug.2019.126481}})\
Measured_Estimated: whether the tree was measured or estimated (NA if the DBH was not measured)\
rowid: for hedges, each hedge has the same rowID for each individual\
Hedge_YN: Y if it is a hedge, N if not a hedge\
genus: genus of trees\
Species: species of tree, not including cultivars. In cases where the tree was identified only to the genus level, this column was left blank. \
hybrid: yes or no if the tree is a hybrid\
cultivar: whether the tree is a cultivar and what the cultivar name is\
Landuse type = type of land cover use for each code. Not including sub-categories. For example, all types of residential size classes are under \'93residentielle\'94. Landuse pulled from \'93https://observatoire.cmm.qc.ca/documents/geomatique/UtilisationDuSol/2022_Shapefiles/66-US-2022.zip\'94. Name translations: "utilit\'e9 publique" = "Public Right-Of-Way", "r\'e9sidentielle" = "Residential", "terrain vacant" = "Vacant Lot", "commerciale" = "Commercial", "institutionnelle" = "Institutional", "parc" = "Park", "bureau" = "Office", "hydrographie" = "Hydrography","agricole" = "Agricultural", "industrie" = "Industrial"\
Private_Public: Whether the tree is located on private or public land. Designation from pulled from \'93https://observatoire.cmm.qc.ca/documents/geomatique/UtilisationDuSol/2022_Shapefiles/66-US-2022.zip\'94. Trees on \'93utilit\'e9 publique\'94 or \'93parc\'94 are considered public trees. All other categories are private. \
Geometry: geolocation of tree\
\
\
PlotStatsTreesJun1:\
\
Plot: which plot the tree is located in \
Tree_count: Number of trees in each plot\
Spec_rich: Number of species in each plot (does not include cultivars. includes hybrids)\
MinDBH: Minimum DBH present in plot\
MaxDBH: Maximum DBH present in plot\
MedianDBH: Median DBH present in plot\
Dom_spec: The top three most common species in the plot, with the percentage that each species represents of all trees in the plot\
Pub_vs_Pri: Percentage of trees in the plot that are found on Public and Private land\
Builtperc: Percentage of the plot that is built area (calculated using Open Street Map data for roads, railroads, bodies of water, waterways. Building area calculated using \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
building dataset from the City of Montreal (2017) found on Donn\'e9es Qu\'e9bec {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.donneesquebec.ca/recherche/dataset/vmtl-batiment-2d"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 https://www.donneesquebec.ca/recherche/dataset/vmtl-batiment-2d}}\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
Plantperc: Percentage of the plot that is plantable area. Calculated by subtracting total plot area - built area. Both built and plantable area estimated and not subject to ground truthing. \
Geometry: geolocation of plot polygons (200 m radius)}